Documentation for -XX:[+|-]EnableDynamicAgentLoading (#1174)
eclipse-openj9/openj9-docs: docs/xxenabledynamicagentloading.md

<!--

> * Copyright (c) 2017, 2023 IBM Corp. and others

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Copyright (c) 2023, 2023 IBM Corp. and others
```

Author: As per the Contribution guidelines, copyright dates are not changed, even for a new topic; the dates refer to the complete documentation set, not to individual files and so should be the same in all topics. 

https://github.com/eclipse-openj9/openj9-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#style-guidelines

-->

# -XX:\[+|-\]EnableDynamicAgentLoading

This option enables or disables the dynamic loading of agents into a running VM.

## Syntax

        -XX:[+|-]EnableDynamicAgentLoading

| Setting               | Effect  | Default                                                                            |
|-----------------------|---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` |  Enable   |   :fontawesome-solid-check:{: .yes aria-hidden="true"}<span class="sr-only">yes</span>                                 |
| `-XX:-EnableDynamicAgentLoading` |  Disable  |     |

## Explanation

With the [Attach API](attachapi.md), your application can connect to a running VM and load an agent dynamically into that VM to run tasks. Some libraries misuse the Attach API to dynamically load an agent to run tasks without the approval of the application owner.

You can disable the dynamic loading of the agents into a VM after startup with the `-XX:-EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option.

> ![Start of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java21plus.png) For Java&trade; 21 and later, the following warnings are issued when the agents are loaded dynamically into a running VM after startup without specifying the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option and the same agents were not loaded at startup by using the [command-line options](interface_jvmti.md#overview):

Author: @JasonFengJ9 - If the agents are loaded dynamically into a running VM after startup after specifying the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option, but the same agents were loaded before, the warnings will be issued?

> ![Start of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java21plus.png) For Java&trade; 21 and later, the following warnings are issued when the agents are loaded dynamically into a running VM after startup without specifying the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option and the same agents were not loaded at startup by using the [command-line options](interface_jvmti.md#overview):

Reviewer: > If the agents are loaded dynamically into a running VM after startup after specifying the -XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading option, but the same agents were loaded before, the warnings will be issued?

If `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` is specified which is only possible at the VM startup command line options, there will be NO warnings always.

>> the warnings are only issued once even if it is dynamically loaded multiple times:

> I am not clear about this. if an agent is loaded without the XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading option multiple times. then won't the warnings be issued each time that agent is loaded?

The warnings only appear once for the same agent when `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` is not specified.

> Also, if the agent was loaded at startup with the command-line option or through dynamic loading (with the XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading option), then if that same agent is dynamically loaded again but without the XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading option, then the warning will be issued, right?

Note that `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` is a JVM startup command line option and affects all agent loading afterwards, i.e., if it is set at startup, all agents dynamically loaded regardless of their names/paths are considered approved by the application owner, and no warnings will be issued.

```
WARNING: A {Java,JVM TI} agent has been loaded dynamically (file:/u/bob/agent.jar)
WARNING: If a serviceability tool is in use, please run with -XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading to hide this warning
WARNING: If a serviceability tool is not in use, please run with -Djdk.instrument.traceUsage for more information
WARNING: Dynamic loading of agents will be disallowed by default in a future release
```

> AIX&reg; systems cannot detect whether an agent library was previously loaded at startup or not. Therefore, the warnings are issued when an agent is loaded dynamically through the Attach API (`VirtualMachine.loadAgentLibrary(agent)`) even if the agent was loaded through the command-line option (`-agentpath:/Absolute/Path/to/agentLibrary`) at startup. ![End of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java_close_lts.png)

Author: @JasonFengJ9 - What do you mean by "only issue one warning message which is not AIX-specific capability"?

> AIX&reg; systems cannot detect whether an agent library was previously loaded at startup or not. Therefore, the warnings are issued when an agent is loaded dynamically through the Attach API (`VirtualMachine.loadAgentLibrary(agent)`) even if the agent was loaded through the command-line option (`-agentpath:/Absolute/Path/to/agentLibrary`) at startup. ![End of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java_close_lts.png)

Reviewer: > What do you mean by "only issue one warning message which is not AIX-specific capability"?

If an agent is loaded dynamically with the same name or absolute path, OpenJ9 VM is able to compare it with previously loaded libraries and determine if it was already loaded, in case the agent library was loaded before, no more warnings are issued.
However, if the same library is loaded differently, for example, one with a platform-independent name such as `VirtualMachine.loadAgentLibrary(agent)`, and the other with an absolute file path `-agentpath:/Absolute/Path/to/agentLibrary`, this use case requires the OS API to determine if the same library was loaded, AIX doesn't have such APIs like other platforms supported by OpenJ9, hence another warnings will be issued.

-->

# -XX:\[+|-\]EnableDynamicAgentLoading

This option enables or disables the dynamic loading of agents into a running VM.

## Syntax

        -XX:[+|-]EnableDynamicAgentLoading

| Setting               | Effect  | Default                                                                            |
|-----------------------|---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` |  Enable   |   :fontawesome-solid-check:{: .yes aria-hidden="true"}<span class="sr-only">yes</span>                                 |
| `-XX:-EnableDynamicAgentLoading` |  Disable  |     |

## Explanation

With the [Attach API](attachapi.md), your application can connect to a running VM and load an agent dynamically into that VM to run tasks. Some libraries misuse the Attach API to dynamically load an agent to run tasks without the approval of the application owner.

You can disable the dynamic loading of the agents into a VM after startup with the `-XX:-EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option.

> ![Start of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java21plus.png) For Java&trade; 21 and later, the following warnings are issued when the agents are loaded dynamically into a running VM after startup without specifying the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option. These warnings are not issued if the same agents were loaded before at startup either by using the [command-line options](interface_jvmti.md#overview) or an earlier dynamic loading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Start of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java21plus.png) For Java&trade; 21 and later, the following warnings are issued when the agents are loaded dynamically into a running VM after startup without specifying the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option. These warnings are not issued if the same agents were loaded before either by using the [command-line options](interface_jvmti.md#overview) at startup or an earlier dynamic loading.
```
Note: an agent dynamic loading always occurs after VM startup.

```
WARNING: A {Java,JVM TI} agent has been loaded dynamically (file:/u/bob/agent.jar)
WARNING: If a serviceability tool is in use, please run with -XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading to hide this warning
WARNING: If a serviceability tool is not in use, please run with -Djdk.instrument.traceUsage for more information
WARNING: Dynamic loading of agents will be disallowed by default in a future release
```

These warnings are issued only once for the same agent when the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option is not specified.

> If the `-XX:+EnableDynamicAgentLoading` option is set at startup, all agents that are dynamically loaded are considered as approved by the application owner, and therefore, no warnings are issued.

Reviewer: Also, note here that a command line option can only be specified at VM startup, not sure if "at startup" here is required.

> Eclipse OpenJ9&trade; supported operating systems other than AIX&reg; have APIs to determine whether the same agent was loaded before or not, even if an agent is loaded with the same or different name and absolute path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eclipse OpenJ9&trade; supported operating systems other than AIX&reg; have APIs to determine whether the same agent was loaded before or not, even if an agent is loaded with a platform-independent name or an absolute path to the platform-dependent library.
```

> AIX systems cannot detect whether an agent was previously loaded or not if the agent was loaded through a different name or path. Therefore, on AIX systems, the warnings are issued when an agent is loaded dynamically through the Attach API (`VirtualMachine.loadAgentLibrary(agent)`) even if the same agent was loaded before through the command-line option (`-agentpath:/Absolute/Path/to/agentLibrary`) at startup. ![End of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java_close_lts.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AIX systems cannot detect whether an agent was previously loaded or not if the agent was loaded through a platform-independent name or an absolute path to the platform-dependent library. Therefore, on AIX systems, the warnings are issued when an agent is loaded dynamically through the Attach API (`VirtualMachine.loadAgentLibrary(agent)`) even if the same agent was loaded before through the command-line option (`-agentpath:/Absolute/Path/to/agentLibrary`) at startup. ![End of content that applies to Java 21 (LTS) and later](cr/java_close_lts.png)
```
